# GRAD521_GustafsonDMP_2026
Data Management Plan
Description of Graduate 521 Masters Project Data Management Plan
This study aims to characterize tibial bone density in adult horses and evaluate its association with fracture risk. Catastrophic fracture of this bone, particularly during recovery from general anesthesia, is a major cause of mortality in equine veterinary surgery. Some risk factors have been described, but the contribution of bone density remains poorly understood. The objectives are to quantify tibial bone density across equine populations, assess variation with signalment and clinical factors, and determine the relationship between bone density and mechanical failure strength. 
There will be four primary data types. First, imaging data will include multi-detector computed tomography (MDCT) where Hansfield units will be used to quantify bone density of the proximal and distal metaphysis of each bone. Micro-computed tomography (microCT) scans along with derived quantitative bone density measurements using Archimedes principle will be collected for each metaphysis of each bone. Second, biomechanical data like load and failure thresholds will be obtained during axial compression testing of tibias. Third, clinical and signalment data will included variables like age, sex, breed, exercise history, diet and comorbidities which is obtained from the veterinary clinical record. Serum samples from each patient will be used to quantify blood markers of bone resorption/formation. Lastly, physical specimens (40 paired tibias) will be collected for analysis and marked with patient specific IDs to maintain unique identifiers. 
Data is being collected from tibial specimens obtained post-mortem from the OSU Veterinary Teaching Hospital after owner consent for usage. Physical specimens are stored with the appropriate biohazard protections in place in freezers (-20 F for tibias and -70 F for serum samples). Imaging with CT at the OSU VTH and OSU Skeletal Biology lab will be done with standardized protocols and stored on protected PACs systems for reading. Mechanical testing will be performed at the OSU Engineering lab using an Intron testing system to simulate physiological load to failure conditions and outputs collected in spreadsheet data. Videos will also be taken of the tibias undergoing load to failure testing. Clinical data is being collected in an excel spreadsheet format to later integrate with other data collection from imaging and biomechanical testing using unique patient identifiers. 
I am unsure of how to estimate the total data volume, but might predict the data to be approximately 1-5 GB. All data is stored on secure institutional servers. 
I am the sole individual responsible for the implementation of the DMP. I can ask my PI and other project members for guidance/advice, but ultimately, I am the only one in charge of the data organization. My PI and other project members all have access to view and edit the data in the password protected files they are located in. I am required to complete my training and project within the next 2.5 yrs, so there is no backup for me, nor plans for me leaving the project. If another project member leaves, I would need to find an additional researcher to fill their role in the project or take over the role myself. 
a.	Archiving and preservation: Primary graduate student (GG)
b.	Data manager: Primary graduate student (GG)
c.	Protection of sensitive and protected data: Primary graduate student (GG)
d.	Instrumentation maintenance: Researcher veterinary specialist 1 (LN), certified veterinary technician (JW), Research specialist 2 (UI), certified veterinary technician (SS), machine testing technician (SC)
e.	Data collection/data generation: Primary graduate student (GG), research veterinary specialist 1 (LN), research veterinary specialist 3 (MK), research specialist 2 (UI), 
f.	Data organization: primary graduate student (GG)
g.	Metadata generation: primary graduate student (GG)
h.	Quality control: primary graduate student (GG)
i.	Data analysis: primary graduate student (GG), research veterinary specialist 1 (LN), research veterinary specialist 3 (MK), research specialist 2 (UI)
j.	Access Control: primary graduate student (GG)
k.	Software creation & maintenance: not applicable
